Improve the MTLS migration task. (#6255)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/authentication/mtls-migration/index.md

lose communication. Moreover, you can use the
[Grafana dashboard](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/using-istio-dashboard/) to check which services are
still sending plaintext traffic to the service in `PERMISSIVE` mode and choose to lock
them down once the migration is done.

## Before you begin

* Understand Istio [authentication policy](/docs/concepts/security/#authentication-policies) and related [mutual TLS authentication](/docs/concepts/security/#mutual-tls-authentication) concepts.

* Read the [authentication policy task](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy) to
  learn how to configure authentication policy.

* Have a Kubernetes cluster with Istio installed, without global mutual TLS enabled (e.g use the demo configuration profile as described in
[installation steps](/docs/setup/getting-started), or set the `global.mtls.enabled` installation option to false).

* Ensure that your cluster is in `PERMISSIVE` mode before migrating to mutual TLS.
  Run the following command to check:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl get meshpolicy default -o yaml
    ...
    spec:
      peers:
      - mtls:
          mode: PERMISSIVE
    {{< /text >}}

>   If the output is the same as above, you can skip the next step. Otherwise, perform the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the output is the same as above, you can skip the next step.
```

* Run the following command to enable `PERMISSIVE` mode for the cluster. In general, this operation

>   does not cause any interruption to your workloads, but also see the warning message below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  does not cause any interruption to your workloads, but note the warning message below.
```

    {{< warning >}}
    In `PERMISSIVE` mode, the Envoy sidecar relies on the

>     [ALPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-Layer_Protocol_Negotiation) value `_istio_` to

Author: ```suggestion
    [ALPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-Layer_Protocol_Negotiation) value `istio` to
```

    decide whether to terminate the mutual TLS traffic. If your workloads (without Envoy sidecar)
    have enabled mutual TLS directly to the services with Envoy sidecars, enabling `PERMISSIVE` mode
    may cause these connections to fail.
    {{< /warning >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: "authentication.istio.io/v1alpha1"
    kind: "MeshPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "default"
    spec:
      peers:
      - mtls:
          mode: PERMISSIVE
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}

> Use the following command to show the mutual TLS configuration of all connections from one pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following command to show the mutual TLS configuration of all connections from one pod:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl authn tls-check <YOUR_POD> -n <YOUR_NAMESPACE>
{{< /text >}}

{{< /tip >}}

> In the following, the task is divided into two parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rest of this task is divided into two parts.
```

> * If you want to enable mutual TLS for your workloads one after one, you can go to the section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you want to enable mutual TLS for your workloads one by one, go to
```

[gradually enable mutual TLS for services](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/mtls-migration/#option-1-gradually-enable-mutual-tls-for-services),

> which instructs the process using simple examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which describes the process using simple examples.
```

> * Or, if you want to enable mutual TLS for the entire cluster, you can go to the section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you want to enable mutual TLS for the entire cluster, refer to
```

[globally enable mutual TLS for the cluster](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/mtls-migration/#option-2-globally-enable-mutual-tls-for-the-cluster).

## Option 1: gradually enable mutual TLS for services

In this section, you can try out the migration process by creating sample workloads and modifying
the policies to enforce STRICT mutual TLS between the workloads.

### Set up the cluster

> * Create the following namespaces and deploy [httpbin]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/httpbin) and [sleep]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/sleep) with sidecar on both of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create the following namespaces and deploy [httpbin]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/httpbin) and [sleep]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/sleep) with sidecars on both of them.
```

    * `foo`
    * `bar`

> * Create the following namespace and deploy [sleep]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/sleep) without sidecar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create the following namespace and deploy [sleep]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/sleep) without a sidecar
```

    spec:
      peers:
      - mtls:
          mode: PERMISSIVE
    {{< /text >}}

  If you find the output same as above, you can skip the next step. Otherwise, move to the next step.

* Run the following command to enable PERMISSIVE mode for the cluster. In general, this operation
  does not cause any interruption your your workloads, but also see the warning message below.

    {{< warning >}}
    In PERMISSIVE mode, the Envoy sidecar relies on the
    [ALPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-Layer_Protocol_Negotiation) value _istio_ to
    decide whether to terminate the mutual TLS traffic. If your workloads (without Envoy sidecar)
    have enabled mutual TLS directly to the services with Envoy sidecars, enabling PERMISSIVE mode
    may cause these connections to fail.
    {{< /warning >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: "authentication.istio.io/v1alpha1"
    kind: "MeshPolicy"
    metadata:
      name: "default"
    spec:
      peers:
      - mtls:
          mode: PERMISSIVE
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}
Use _istioctl authn tls-check_ to show the mTLS configuration of all connections from one pod:

{{< text bash >}}

> $ istioctl authn tls-check \<YOUR\_POD\> -n \<YOUR\_NAMESPACE\>

Reviewer 2: remove the extra `\` in the command?

Author: I don't think it's a good idea - that may confuse the compiler.

Reviewer 2: What compiler?  I thought this is just a string that you wants the user to replace it with the actual value.

{{< /text >}}

{{< /tip >}}

In the following, the task is divided into two parts.

* If you want to enable mutual TLS for your workloads one after one, you can go to

> [this section](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/mtls-migration/#enable-mutual-tls-for-a-service),

Reviewer 2: nit: it's easier to quickly understand the option if you put the actual title of the section instead of using `this section` here.

Author: Sure, done.

which instructs the process using simple examples.

* Or, if you want to enable mutual TLS for the entire cluster, you can go to

> [this section](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/mtls-migration/#globally-enable-mutual-tls-for-the-cluster).

Reviewer 2: Same here for `this section`.

Author: Done.

> ## Enable mutual TLS for a service

Reviewer 2: I feel it's better to change to `"Option 1: Gradually enable mutual TLS for the service"` to call out there are multiple options in this task and the difference from the other option.

Author: Done.

However, when configured with `PERMISSIVE` mode, no authentication or authorization checks will be performed for plaintext traffic by default.
We recommend you use [Istio Authorization](/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-http/) to configure different paths with different authorization policies.

> ## Globally enabling mutual TLS for the cluster

Reviewer 2: If I understand correctly, this step is to migrate all workloads to use mTLS at once, and the above 2 steps is to migrate a specific workload to use mTLS. Should we make it clear that these are 2 separate migration path and their relationship is parallel?

Author: Yes, we need to make that clear. I also found that we need to further improve this task. The task gives instructions based on the task. We need to tell customers with existing clusters how to inspect their system and migrate.

However, when configured with `PERMISSIVE` mode, no authentication or authorization checks will be performed for plaintext traffic by default.
We recommend you use [Istio Authorization](/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-http/) to configure different paths with different authorization policies.

### Cleanup

To remove all temperary resources created in this task:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl delete ns foo bar legacy
Namespaces foo bar legacy deleted.
{{< /text >}}

> ## Globally enable mutual TLS for the cluster

Reviewer 2: Similar to the above, I feel it's better to start with `"Option 2: ..."` in the title.

Author: Done.

This section describes how to apply the cluster-wide DestinationRule and MeshPolicy to enforce
mutual TLS for a cluster. For more details, please read the
[Authentication policy](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#globally-enabling-istio-mutual-tls)
task.

{{< warning >}}
If you have special TLS configurations for your services or you have

> services without Envoy sidecars, we recommend you to enable mutual TLS service by service.

Reviewer 2: It's better to add a link to the above section to help the user to quickly navigate to the other option and avoid confusion.

Author: Done.

If you have special TLS configurations for your services or you have
services without Envoy sidecars, we recommend that you
[enable mutual TLS service by service](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/mtls-migration/#option-1-gradually-enable-mutual-tls-for-services).
{{< /warning >}}

### Configure all clients to send mutual TLS traffic

Run the following command to enable all Envoy sidecars to send mutual TLS traffic to the servers.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: "networking.istio.io/v1alpha3"
kind: "DestinationRule"
metadata:
  name: "default"
  namespace: "istio-system"
spec:
  host: "*.local"
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
EOF
{{< /text >}}

The connections between services should not be interrupted.

### Lock down to mutual TLS for the entire cluster

Run the following command to enforce all Envoy sidecars to only receive mutual TLS traffic.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: "authentication.istio.io/v1alpha1"
kind: "MeshPolicy"
metadata:
  name: "default"
spec:
  peers:
  - mtls: {}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

The connections between services should not be interrupted.

### Clean up global mutual TLS configuration

> Choose either of the following approaches depending on the status you want to switch to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose one of the following, depending on the mode you want to switch to:
```

{{< /warning >}}

### Configure all clients to send mutual TLS traffic

Run the following command to enable all Envoy sidecars to send mutual TLS traffic to the servers.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: "networking.istio.io/v1alpha3"
kind: "DestinationRule"
metadata:
  name: "default"
  namespace: "istio-system"
spec:
  host: "*.local"
  trafficPolicy:
    tls:
      mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
EOF
{{< /text >}}

The connections between services should not be interrupted.

### Lock down to mTLS for the entire cluster

Run the following command to enforce all Envoy sidecars to only receive mutual TLS traffic.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: "authentication.istio.io/v1alpha1"
kind: "MeshPolicy"
metadata:
  name: "default"
spec:
  peers:
  - mtls: {}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

The connections between services should not be interrupted.
For more details, please read the
[Authentication policy](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#globally-enabling-istio-mutual-tls)
task.

### Cleanup

Clean up the configuration as follows.

* To disable the global mutual TLS configuration:

>   {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: I think this is failing netlify because it needs to be indented to 4 spaces.

Author: Done. Thanks.
